---
layout: post
title: Let it go
date: 2018-05-18 13:32:20 +0300
description: You’ll find this post in your `_posts` directory. Go ahead and edit it and re-build the site to see your changes. # Add post description (optional)
img: let.jpg # Add image post (optional)
tags: [Blog, Inspiration, Speech, LettingGo]
author: # Add name author (optional)
---
Not long ago, I was very stressed and about a situation and was explaining my position to shrey with great dedication. And when I asked him what should I do about my situation? Shrey, just like Hrithik Roshan who was about to jump off the plane from ZNMD told me, &quot;Just let it go Vaurn, Just let it go&quot;. And started laughing. When i gave him a stern look, he told &quot;chorh na yaar, koi faida nahi hai&quot;. &quot;Let it go varun, there is no use&quot; . How many of us have got this golden advice of let it go?

Unfortunately, most of the people who are telling you this have no clue as to how to do it.   Mostly, they&#39;re just tired of hearing you rant about your problems.  If you ask the majority of people what they think it means to let something go, generally you&#39;ll hear something like, &quot;You just need to stop thinkin&#39; about it.&quot;  Jesus! What a great idea!   But it doesn&#39;t really work, no matter what you do to distract yourself it&#39;s still there, in the pit of your stomach in the back of your head. 24/7 making it impossible for you to eat, sleep or work.

The good news is that letting go actually works like a charm in such situations but bad news is that there is not a handy-dandy, easy-peasy, five-step program for letting go. Letting go is a process.

Letting go is all about facing and dealing with reality. Facing the facts.  Holding on is all about bargaining.  Bargaining, is a way of magical thinking in which we tell ourselves all manner of things that are not true, in order to keep holding on. Let us take 2 examples.

1. 1)Shruti hates her job, but one day, she is going to get a promotion and become the manager and she won&#39;t have to do all the things she hates.
2. 2)If Shrey can get his girlfriend to be more loving and caring, not only will he feel loved but also she will make up for all the emotional damage she has done to him by being cold and indifferent towards him.

These situations are bargains. You are tricking yourself to think about a scenario in which you have unlimited power. Letting go works just the opposite. Rather than deluding ourselves by making ourselves believe we have all kinds of powers we don&#39;t have, letting go is about facing the facts

1. 3)Shruti hates her job, but she will start looking for another job, or perhaps, she will go to a career counsellor who can help her figure out what she wants to do.
2. 4)Shrey&#39;s girlfriend is a cold and indifferent towards him. So it is better for him to move on there are tons of people who respect and love him..

My friend, Rahul, narrated this incident to me which happened with him during his childhood and hearing to him made by belief even stronger.

Rahul, was a mischievous little boy. He had a notorious habit of getting into gruesome situations. Once, he managed to get his hand stuck in a very expensive antique vase.

When he went to his parents, they were furious with him and tried everything to remove that vase from his hand. But, the vase did not come off. Ultimately, tired and exhausted, his father declared, &quot;I will pay Rs. 2000 to whoever gets this vase free oh my child&#39;s hand.&quot;

&quot;Really?&quot; little Rahul exclaimed. Then they heard a clinking sound and his hand slid right out of the vase. They turned the vase upside down and a penny plopped out. &quot;What&#39;s this?&quot; they asked in unison.

&quot;Oh, that&#39;s the one rupee coin I put inside. I wanted to get it out so I was clutching it in my hand. But when I heard Dad say he would give 2000rs to have the vase free, I let go.&quot;

How often do we cling to things when they are nothing in comparison to what could be ours?

How many times have we clung on to things when they are nothing in comparison of what could be ours? How many times have we clung on to the one rupee coin, knowing that there can be a 2000rs note, can be a job which we love, can be person who genuinely cares ,is just around the corner waiting for you to let go. All you have to do is let go off the one rupee coin..

And if you you think about it Vase is the confined world of bargains/imaginary situations. One rupee coin is the stressful situation,shruti&#39;s old job, it is Shrey&#39;s love interest. And they are holding on to it. Clutching it tightly. If they gather some courage, and let it go, they will come out and will face the world of endless realities.

Now people will come up to me and say &quot;You don&#39;t understand, it is not that easy&quot;. Well I never said that it is easy! It is going to be hard. Letting go is probably one of the toughest things we do in life. The journey of finding that 2000 rs note finding that satisfaction won&#39;t be easy but if you have the courage and strength to let go off the bargain and face the reality, to explore the possibilities, and eventually, you will find what you are looking for. You will find the 2000rs note..
